---
title: "Welcome to 123 dev!"
date: 2021-01-05T13:13:00-07:00
draft: false
altext: "a seal hops towards you and waves"
attribution_site: "reddit"
attribution: "https://123dev.email"
---

## Welcome to 123 dev

Since this is the 0th newsletter I'll explain how it works.
I'd like to help you learn development or become a better developer.
I also want you to look forward to opening this newsletter.
I'll keep the content short so you can skim everything in under 10 minutes.
I'll do that by always providing:

- 1 gif
- 2 comments
- 3 links

The gif will hopefully make you smile.
The comments will make you think, and the links will teach or show you something you didn't know.
Usually, content will be about development or technology but not everything.

## Comments

### Breaking into tech
I've been talking to a lot of people trying to break into tech.
They're learning development for the first time and often not sure where to start.
It has been encouraging to me to see people taking initiative and the new ideas and insights they can bring to the industry.

My advice every time has been to find something in technology that they're interested in and find a community they can get involved with.
I recommend they find a small/local community that can help them learn what companies and people are doing in their area, and also find a global community where they can share what they learn and give back by teaching others.
In my personal experience—which is unique to me and shows the enormous privilege I have—all of my job opportunities have come through personal connections in communities and not raw talent or interviewing skills.
### 2021
This is a new year and I'm really excited to learn and create new things.
I have a lot planned—both work and personal—and I can't wait to get more creative than I've been able to be in the past due to lack of time or work restrictions.
This newsletter is one place for a creative personal outlet.

## Links

I liked reading the background on `localizer` and why other tools like `telepresense` and `kubefwd` didn't work the way they wanted. 

https://blog.jaredallard.me/localizer-an-adventure-in-creating-a-reverse-tunnel-and-tunnel-manager-for-kubernetes/

---

I loved this video going through a scene in Disney's 1993 _Aladdin_ and specifically focusing on character development for introducing Aladdin in the movie. If you've never looked at animation in slow motion or shot by shot you'll probably learn some neat tricks about techniques used. 

https://youtu.be/Y8c5jEPJTnA

---

This article is a great framework for what you need for technical documentation. _Tutorials_, _how-tos_, _references_, and _explainations_. If you want to make your code more approachable this is a great place to start!

https://documentation.divio.com/

---
