---
title: "🔒 Creating IAM and handling exceptions"
date: 2021-02-09T13:13:00-07:00
draft: false
altext: "a tree bends and breaks under the weight of snow"
attribution_site: "reddit"
attribution: "https://www.reddit.com/r/gifs/comments/l7odwe/tree_breakage_under_snow_load/"
cover: "6"
---

## Comments

### The weight of nothing

Sometimes we make decisions in software and design that appear to have no impact on what we're building.
After many years of unchecked decisions we may find our systems breaking from a million — seemingly weightless — snowflakes.

### Future of open source

Open source is changing and so are the people and communities.
What started as free software stored in a drawer back when people used to share computers has evolved into big business and companies trying to protect the type of open source that benefits them.
A new generation of users and contributors are getting involved and have their own motives.

I'm excited to see where open source ends up for my kids.
I try to help guide communities to learn from the past, but the world is different and the next generation is less gate keeping and more welcoming so I stand back and take notes instead.

## Links

If you've ever struggled with creating AWS IAM rules — I know I have — this tool is for you.
It watches the AWS CLI or any app built with the SDK and can automatically build an IAM profile based on the access it observers.

https://github.com/iann0036/iamlive

---

I use gotty occasionally to use my terminal from my browser.
Usually, I use it for screen sharing, but I love Julia's use case and fork to enable dynamic, isolated sessions for the terminal game she made described in this blog post.

https://jvns.ca/blog/2021/01/14/day-38--modifying-gotty-to-serve-many-different-terminal-applications-at-once/

---

This post has great comparisons on how errors and exceptions are handled in different languages.
I had never put much thought into how the definition of errors and exceptions shapes the code.
It makes me appreciate go a little bit more.

https://dev.to/swyx/errors-are-not-exceptional-1g0b

---