---
title: "🐱🕯️ Curious tools and resume tips"
date: 2021-06-01T13:13:00-07:00
draft: false
altext: "a cat hits a candle and falls off a counter"
attribution_site: "reddit"
attribution: "https://www.reddit.com/r/gifs/comments/nmmz14/oh_it_burns/"
cover: "22"
width: "300"
height: "388"
---

## Comments

### Curiosity

Sometimes our curiosity gets the best of us.
I cannot count how many times I've run a command, changed a config, or pushed a button that burned me.
Usually, I learn my lesson.
Many times I've put up guardrails or warnings so other devs wouldn't burn themselves in exactly the same way.
People are very creative and until you remove the candle they'll always find a way to learn on their own.

### Tracking your resumes

I have kept my resumes in a git repo for the past 8 years.
It is extremely helpful for many reasons.
Not the least of which is to remember jobs I applied for and to see how my resume has changed over time.

I have one general format on `main` and keep different branches for each company and type of role I apply for.
I would also recommend you tag a generic version as a release so it's easy to find.
When you make a commit be as descriptive as you can for what changes you made and why (just like code).

## Links

There are a lot of old tools being rewritten in rust and I've been enjoying quite a few of them.
Some are also enhanced in the process which loses compatibility but gains usability.
I especially like `fd`, `exa`, and `bat`.
There are lots more to check out in this list.

https://github.com/TaKO8Ki/awesome-alternatives-in-rust

---

I discovered `entr` this week when looking for an easier alternative for `inotifywait`.
Was a great way for me to recompile and test a go app when I saved the file with `ls | entr -r go run main.go`.

https://github.com/eradman/entr

---

I found `just` before I realized it was written in rust.
It's an alternative to `make` with some things I really like.
It's not a build system so you don't have to trick it into being a command runner.
It automatically sources `.env` files and also has a default way to list all recipes.

https://github.com/casey/just