---
title: "Be kind and AWS Infinidash 🌩️"
date: 2021-07-06T13:13:00-07:00
draft: false
altext: "an animation showing how a rocket launches from earth and lands on the moon"
attribution_site: "YouTube"
attribution: "https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hKdpzagTUxk"
cover: "27"
width: "384"
height: "216"
---

## Comments

### Silent stories

The ability to educate with stories is something humans are very good at.
Videos are just a new(ish) medium for telling stories.
One of the reasons I love gifs is they're videos with restrictions.
The restrictions limit the types of stories we can tell but not the impact those stories can have to educate.

I loved the visuals of this gif because even if you know the basics of how a rocket gets to the moon when you see it all in 60 seconds it can still educate you.
Many of the details are incorrect (e.g. size of Earth and moon, distance apart) but the thing this animation teaches you is the process and order events happen.
You can fill in the details if you'd like, but knowing the order helps you tell a story.

### Be kind

There were some people making fun on someone for saying base64 encoding is secure.
Many people know that's not true, but everyone is still learning.
There was absolutely a time when I believed it to be secure too.
Kudos to them for learning and sharing in public.

It's important to know how to be kind and educate people without publicly shaming them or making them feel stupid.
We've all made incorrect assumptions on our paths to learn new things and it's okay to be wrong.
XKCD 1053 is great at putting it into numbers when it says every day 10,000 people learn something that "everyone knows"

## Links

AWS Infinidash launched last week with a lot of fanfare.
It was a joke that started on twitter poking fun at AWS product naming, recruiters, and general hype cycles in the industry.
The way everything happened taught me a lot and hopefully everyone had a laugh.
Corey Quinn and I did a live stream for the launch and tried to balance the fun while letting people in on the joke.
You can find the live stream and other content here.

Even though most of the tweets and jokes have stopped there will probably be some more news about it this week.
I also bought a few shirts which benefits a youth LGBTQ+ organization.
Check it out.

https://github.com/joenash/awesome-infinidash

---

If you're a developer you should use git.
If you use git you probably use GitHub.
If you use GitHub you would benefit from a native CLI client.

I'm still learning some of the functions, but the more I work with GitHub Actions and the rest of GitHub repo features the more I appreciate not having to click through the web UI.

https://github.com/cli/cli

---

TLS certificates were never intended to be human friendly.
They are great for security but not for automation or human workflows.
CFSSL tries to make it better for humans with some common tools to make creating and managing certificates easier.

https://github.com/cloudflare/cfssl
