---
title: "Mental health is health"
date: 2021-08-31T13:13:00-07:00
draft: false
altext: "Gru from Despicable me shows off a slides of new ideas and then is surprised by domain renewals"
attribution_site: "gifmemes"
attribution: "https://gifmemes.io/Gru's%20evil%20plan-4mQqVwKhaDMEsWDzRKiGOdafask1-fW1SuV"
cover: "35"
width: "480"
height: "270"
---

## Comments

### Stress

As a junior developer you get assigned work and have to implement it and solve problems within a certain scope.
As you get more senior you have more responsibility which often comes with more visibility and more pressure.
Sometimes you're a blocker for a new project or are part of an outage.
These can be stressful situations.

If you have a desire to have more freedom to choose your work and solve bigger problems you're going to have to deal with some level of new things which can be stressful.
I suggest you find healthy ways you can deal with stress early in life and make them habits before you find yourself stressed with no release.

### Changing your stars

There's a line from the movie _A Knight's Tale_ when William Thatcher (played by Heath Ledger) is being sent away as a boy presumably because his dad can't take care of him.
His dad tells him to "change his stars" and William asks if it can be done.
His dad says "Yes William. If he believes enough, a man can do anything."

For lots of people, including myself, "changing your stars" is about survival and money is a requirement.
When you constantly have to stress about food, shelter, safety, and basic necessities you cannot live.

Tech is an answer for many of people seeking to change their stars.
It can give the freedoms they never had and provide for them to live.

Be kind to people you work with.
You never know where they came from or what motivates them to be here.
You don't know what they're going through, and a kind word can go a long way.

## Links

If you've ever used json at the command line you've likely used `jq`.
This has some well organized example for usage with clear breakdowns of how to do each task.
Knowing these fairly basic use cases can go a long way.

I can't stop thinking about the phrase in the article
> They are in my head, not my fingers.

What a perfect way to describe knowing something but still needing to look it up.

https://earthly.dev/blog/jq-select/

---

I used to think I had to know how to program before I could be a developer.
For years I was creating tools and automation without considering what I did programming.

When I got my first "real" developer job I realized the work had more to do with how you approach problems and being able to learn new things.

https://nested.substack.com/p/keeping-up

---

I've never seen GitHub discussions used for teaching.
The threads here had very clear definitions and some wonderful and simple imagery to explain the concepts.

https://github.com/reactwg/react-18/discussions/46
