---
title: "Tools and workflows"
date: 2021-09-07T13:13:00-07:00
draft: false
altext: "Someone created a real time ray tracing program in excel. This shows balls"
attribution_site: "reddit"
attribution: "https://www.reddit.com/r/gifs/comments/pf79l8/raytracing_in_microsoft_excel/"
cover: "36"
width: "480"
height: "270"
---

## Comments

### Tools you're familiar with

The right tool for the job isn't always the best tool.
Some tools are made for a specific reason, but there is a learning curve and cognitive tax to know how to use new tools.
Sometimes the right tool is the one that is good enough that you already know.

The hardest part is knowing when to switch tools.
If you work on a team this means updating documentation and training and maybe convincing the rest of your team the switch will be worth it.

### Workflows that work

The same can be said for workflows, but workflows are much more sticky than tools.
This past week I wanted to edit a gif.
I needed to speed it up and remove a couple sections.

I know this is possible with `ffmpeg` or I could manually export all the images and do it with a file manager.
I wanted a GUI tool because it would be a lot faster and because most of my gif edits are visual I can't automate the process.

I spent 30+ minutes looking for a good visual gif editor and then realized my workflow was flawed.
Instead of modifying the final file I needed to do my edits closer to recording time when the file is still a video.
There are LOTS of great video editors.

By shifting my work earlier in the workflow and outputting a finished gif I was able to accomplish what I wanted faster and with more options.

The same optimizations are true in development.
Lots of times there are small improvements, but every once and a while you'll find that you can greatly improve your feedback loops and build process by changing where you perform work in the process.

## Links

I'm a sucker for anything that can visually explain to me how something works.
This time is a visual guide to how react renders different parts of the app.

https://alexsidorenko.com/blog/react-render-always-rerenders/

---

This article isn't about _not_ being exceptional.
It's about being yourself and knowing what makes you unique and happy.
You shouldn't try to be the best if that's not what you want to be.

Be the best *you*.

https://javascript.plainenglish.io/its-okay-to-be-an-average-developer-f430e46e7510

---

I spent a lot of time last week with bootstrap.
I had never used it before, but I understand why so many people use it now that I completed a project with it.
Someone let me know about bulma which they described as a modern bootstrap.
I don't know all the details and maybe bootstrap 5 does similar things, but it's worth digging into to find out.

https://bulma.io/