---
title: "📃 Make your resume stand better and write your docs with symantic line breaks"
date: 2021-01-26T13:13:00-07:00
draft: false
altext: "a cat waving at something"
attribution_site: "reddit"
attribution: "https://www.reddit.com/r/gifs/comments/k3bjan/cat_trying_to_learn_a_new_tik_tok_dance/"
---

## Comments

### Open Source

There's been a lot of open source news this week between my current employer and Elastic.
I have nothing to do with it directly, but it reminds me that open source is people which means there will always be drama.

Even when it's billion dollar companies it often comes down to a small number of people making decisions.
I think this weeks drama hurt the image of open source more than it helped.

### Resumes

I got to review a resume for someone graduating university soon and gave them some feedback.
The main thing I tried to explain is your resume needs to focus on what you've done, not what you know.
You are trying to enter a business contract with someone and they need to know that you have shown a repeated ability to work for money.

It helps a lot if you can quantify the work you've done even if the numbers don't seem impressive to you.
"Helped customers do X" is not as good as "Helped twelve customers do X".
It's even better if you can point out what you did to make the process or product better for you, your employer, or the customer. 

## Links

If you write markdown or similar markup language docs you owe it to yourself to learn about writing with symantic line breaks.
I didn't know it had a name before last week even though I was always a big proponent to writing this way.
It makes editing and reviewing documentation much easier.

https://sembr.org/

---

Julia has been writing technical zines for a long time now.
I'm glad she shared her thought process in how to explain technical content with cartoons.
The best news is, you don't have to be an artist to draw!

https://jvns.ca/teach-tech-with-cartoons/

---

If you write go and use the AWS SDK you may want to know v2 is generally available.
I spent a couple days last week writing an example application and then a couple days converting it to v2 SDK to give it a try.

Updating the SDK was not trivial even though my tool was only a few hundred lines of code.
But there are quite a few benefits like improved performance and more go-like API calls that may be worth upgrading for.

https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/developer/aws-sdk-for-go-version-2-general-availability/

---