---
title: "How to learn and three projects to try"
date: 2021-02-16T13:13:00-07:00
draft: false
altext: "a frame of a car is replaced in commercials with real looking production cars"
attribution_site: "reddit"
attribution: "https://www.reddit.com/r/gifs/comments/libb92/fun_fact_almost_all_car_commercials_are_done_with/"
cover: "7"
width: "728"
height: "408"
---

## Comments

### Company presentations and movie magic

I often watch conference talks from companies that appear to be complete internal products, but behind the scenes are more like the blackbird car in the gif above.
Companies have high performance, purpose built solutions they create and then present them as the answer to everyone's problem.
This isn't always a negative thing.
You should be aware that their Ferrari may not have a windshield or AC.

### Learning one thing

The problem with big projects is they require learning a lot of things and have low probability of being completed because staying focused to overcome all the barriers is hard.
When implementing a big idea the key to success is learning one thing at a time.

If you try to implement a big idea all at once you'll have too many things to learn.
If you can find one thing to learn and pick a smaller project to teach you that you can build up the skills to implement the big project before you realize.

## Links

This talk was so well done.
Not only was the editing and diagramming cool, but the tool they built — gcploit — has scary potential.

https://youtu.be/Ml09R38jpok

---

Even with prices available via an API it's still difficult to estimate costs of projects and changes.
This CLI looks like it'll be handy for personal and work projects.

https://github.com/infracost/infracost

---

Writing tests is not something I'm great at.
I never had great intuition on how to write testable code and it always felt like a waste because most of my projects only involved one or two people.
I've been trying to write more tests in go lately and testify seems like it might help me write them.

https://github.com/stretchr/testify

---