---
title: "Vertical auto scaling Daft Punk elliptic curves"
date: 2021-02-23T13:13:00-07:00
draft: false
altext: "Two dots on a graph form a line until they hit a 3rd dot"
attribution_site: "Ars Technica"
attribution: "https://arstechnica.com/information-technology/2013/10/a-relatively-easy-to-understand-primer-on-elliptic-curve-cryptography/"
cover: "8"
width: "954"
height: "680"
---

## Comments
### One more feature
It's difficult with software to know when to stop and release what you have.
There's always one more feature to create and one more bug to squash.
Putting out software you know has bugs or doesn't do everything you want is anxiety inducing but also freeing because it can only get better from here.

### Side projects
I like side projects because they give me creative outlets and new ways to learn.
This newsletter is one of my side projects.

I try to treat my job as a side project to my life.
It's not as important as my family even if it's my primary source of income.
I didn't always have this luxury, but I hope you can find a balance for your work and what is important to you.

## Links
The gif is from this article about elliptic curve cryptography.
I'm sure I've read this article before but apparently had forgotten a lot about how it works.
It's worth a (re)read if you're interested in how newer cryptographic algorithms work.

https://arstechnica.com/information-technology/2013/10/a-relatively-easy-to-understand-primer-on-elliptic-curve-cryptography/2/

---

Daft Punk announced this week that they were breaking up. 😢
I've enjoyed their music and creativity for a long time.
This thread with lots of pictures about how the original Daft Punk helmets were created was way more electronics than I expected.
I take for granted the plethora of small electronics we have today that didn't exist 20+ years ago.

https://twitter.com/Daft_Wub/status/1362285526435340288

---

The Kubernetes vertical pod autoscaler is really useful for setting your pod resource and requests based on actual usage.
The docs are good, but they don't go into all of the details and considerations as this post.
Pointing out that you shouldn't use the vertical pod autoscaler on the same workloads with horizontal pod autoscaler is something I think a lot of people (including myself) miss.

https://povilasv.me/vertical-pod-autoscaling-the-definitive-guide/

---